Let's jump over to the front end
and build the actual form to request the reset.
So what I want you to do is open up the Signin.js component.
I want you to just to save that as RequestReset
in your components folder.
Capital RR.
Then we're gonna do a few things.
First, we don't need that and this SIGNIN_MUTATION
is going to be called REQUEST_RESET_MUTATION.
That request RESET_MUTATION, gets passed to here.
There is no refetchQuery that gets passed here.
Our state only needs an email address.
The REQUEST_RESET_MUTATIO only needs
an email address passed to it.
It then needs to call requestReset function.
Only passing in email.
And back from that, what does that return to us?
The way we can tell is we can just take a look
at our schema.
And requestReset is a success message.
So, back from that we just want a message.
Good, got that saved as state, we've got our mutation.
Blah, blah, blah, okay.
When we do have the mutation,
this is not gonna be called signup,
it's gonna be called reset.
Then when someone submits it,
we're going to prevent default and call reset.
And then we just need to set the email to be nothing.
Change this to say request a password reset.
And we obviously don't need the password.
And the button should say Request Reset.
Let's try, go to our page called Signup
and let's import that.
And we now have this showing up.
The one thing we don't have is how do we tell
if it's been called or not?
And there's two options here.
First, we could either capture the success message
that comes back from this, right here.
So we could say like const success
is equal to await reset.
And then we could take the success message,
set it to state, and then display it somewhere down here.
Or, another way we could do it and this is the way
we're going to be doing it now
is in addition to error and loading,
it will also pass you a called property
and the called property will be a Boolean
whether or not this mutation has been called yet.
So what we can do down here, right below error,
we'll check if there's no error.
And it's not loading.
And, it's being called.
Then we're gonna have, give ourselves a paragraph,
success, check your email for a reset link.
Now we go here.
Request a reset.
It went, success, check your email for a reset link.
And we check our terminal here.
You see, this is the ID, it's being logged.
Why?
Let's flip over to our backend real quick.
Open up our mutation.
You'll see that we've got the cobsole.log
which is what this is.
You generally don't want to console.log any of this
especially in production because that way
there's a potential that your reset token,
which is sensitive, you have to treat that as a password.
That should never be in like server logs
or things like that, so we wanna take that out of there,
so that it doesn't actually accidentally get
into the wrong hands.
And we are in good shape, on the front end.
Awesome, now we need to actually hit the Reset page.
So we need to have a new page.
Let's go to our Pages folder.
And I'm just gonna open up the cell.js.
Resave that as reset.js.
And let's just put a paragraph, Reset Your Password.
And we should be able to visit /reset.
There we go, it says Reset Your Password.
Now you see that I have, I'm just gonna go
and grab a updated token here.
And I'm gonna pass that as a reset token.
Capital T via Query Param.
And let's just double check that we can display that
on the page, props.url.query.resestToken.
And, oh, the error there.
Maybe it's just props.query.
There we go, props.query.resetToken.
That's how we have it so what we're going to do
is we're going to create another component called reset.
So go into your components, make a capital R reset.
.JS.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and take everything
from our RequestReset.js and paste it
into reset.js because they are going to be fairly similar.
We wanna change this mutation here,
there's three different spots,
yeah, three different spots that we are referencing it.
And that's just going to be called the RESET_MUTATION.
That RESET_MUTATION is going to take in three arguments.
So we no longer need to take in an email,
we just need to take in the reset token.
That's the thing that's coming in via to URL here
and that is a string that is required.
We also want to take in the user's new password,
which is password, that is a string that is required.
And then we also wanna take in the confirmPassword.
Cause we're gonna ask them to pass the password
and then confirm it so they don't goof that up.
The reason why I am passing the confirmPassword
to the backend, is that I'm billing an API
and regardless of where this API is being used,
I always wanna make sure that the user confirms
the password and we check it on the server.
And this not just a client side check that I wanna do.
You could do it on the client side, but that means
if you ever were to have a RESET_MUTATION anywhere else
in the application, you would also need to do that.
So I prefer to do it on the server side.
Then, here we are going to change the function
from requestReset to resetPassword.
And that is going to take in these three variables
that we have here.
Let me see if I can just fancy copy them.
So the resetToken
The dollar sign is going to be equal to the variable there.
The password is going to be equal to the password.
And the confirmPassword is equal to the dollar sign.
ConfirmPassword.
Good, back from that we are gonna return to user.
So we wanna get their ID, we want their email,
and we want their name and that information is gonna
to be helpful in re-fetching the currently logged in user.
Next let's rename this signin both at the export
and the definition and we'll call that Reset.
The state of this is going to take in just a password
which is set to nothing and a confirmPassword,
which is also set to nothing.
We'll leave the saveToState
cause that's going to be helpful for us.
Then inside of our render, we have this mutation,
which is a RESET_MUTATION.
Our variables is not going to be this.state,
but let's actually pass an object literal.
So remove that.
The three things that are needed to pass well,
we need the resetToken, we need the password,
and we need the confirmPassword.
So if we go down here, and run those,
it's going to be equal to this.props.resetToken.
And remember that's coming from the URL,
so let's double check, let's go back to our page
which is called resetToken and we're not actually
rendering it out on this page just yet.
But it is going to passed down to this one via props.
The password is this.state.password,
and the confirm password is this.state.confirmPassword.
We can add a quick prop type for this resetToken,
I'll go up to the top here.
Static, propTypes
is equal to.
One thing that is getting passed in
is called the resetToken.
And it's going to be of propTypes.string.isRequired.
And we need to import propTypes.
So we've out our mutation,
we are passing our variables successfully.
Inside this field set now we are going to not say
request a reset password reset
but we're going to Reset Your Password.
We'll have our error, that is good.
We can get rid of this check here where error loading.
So remove that.
We no longer need the email
because it's going to be a password.
So I'm just going to change this over to password.
Change this to password.
So label for password.
Type, password, name is password,
placeholder is password, value this.state.password.
And onChange saveToState.
Good, and then we need to just duplicate that
for the confirm password.
So, confirm your password.
I'm gonna change all of these to,
what did we call it in state?
ConfirmPassword.
And then we'll change the button
that says Reset Your Password.
I think that's good,
let's get it showing up on this page here.
So we'll go back to our actual reset page
and import that component.
So we can actually just reuse this to reset.
Then we can go ahead and use the reset component
and of course we need to pass the resetToken as a prop
'cause remember, we're expecting it to be passed in,
that's why we went ahead and did a propType there.
And we can pass it in via saying props.query.resetToken.
Let's go ahead and give it a shot.
So when we submit this form it is going to call
the onSubmit, which will in turn prevent the default.
It will run our mutation, which is called Reset.
And, oh, actually we do not need this.
This setState actually can be changed to password.
We can reset that and confirmPassword is nothing.
So let's see if it worked!
I'm gonna change my new password to Wes and whoa!
Bit of an issue there.
Oh, the type is not confirmPassword.
The type is still password.
There we go and ready, cross your fingers.
It might not work, probably not.
Bah, shoot this token is either invalid or oh, you know why?
It's 'cause I had lunch.
I had lunch in between, so that's no problem.
But what we do need to do is go ahead
and make a new token for ourselves.
So yours might have worked, but let's hold on a second.
I'm going to go ahead and make a new token, so.
Go back to that signup page.
Put my email in.
Request a reset.
Good, obviously we haven't hooked up our email yet.
So I need to go either into the console or into my database
to get that token.
So we'll do that now.
So I'm gonna go back and swap out that resetToken.
Good, now I'm going to change my password to Wes.
Reset your password.
Boom, looks like it worked.
I don't really know if it worked
because we didn't provide any success message.
But, what is actually gonna happen is if it worked properly,
it's actually going to log us in.
So if we go ahead and sign out here and try to sign in,
looks like we are immediately signed in there.
And that's the kind of same idea I wanna have
when you request a reset.
So, how do we do that?
Well, the answer to that is we use something called
a refetchQuery in our mutation.
So, if we open up our user component,
you'll see that we have this CURRENT_USER_QUERY.
We actually want to refetch the CURRENT_USER_QUERY,
so that if the person has changed,
if the currently logged in person has changed,
then Apollo will automatically go back to the server
and refetch who is currently signed in.
It's exactly what we wanna do.
So we'll go back to our reset.js.
Go up to the top, and we'll import the,
what is it called?
CURRENT_USER_QUERY and the reason why
we can import is 'cause if you go
to the bottom of user.js,
you see that we've exported it as a named export.
So, import CURRENT_USER_QUERY from the /user component.
And then we can go down to our mutation here,
and we say refetchQueries is equal to
and it's an array of queries cause it could be multiple.
And the query that we want to refetch
is going to be called the CURRENT_USER_QUERY.
So what this means is that, when this mutation
has successfully been called, are there other queries
that should be refeteched and refreshed of their date?
And of course we wanna refresh the CURRENT_USER_QUERY.
So, let's try the whole, sort of roundtrip once more.
Gonna reset my password.
Gonna go up here and refresh the data.
And open it up, gonna grab my token.
Gonna go to the reset page and pass in my new token.
You see, oh, make sure that you're signed out
and then I'm gonna reset my new password.
Run it, and bam you see that this automatically changed?
I find that that's probably the best way to show the user
that it worked because you're automatically signed in.
You could put a some sort of success message here as well.
But I find that just clearing it, you could also
just route to the home page and show the user
that they're signed in.
That's really, really nice.
You see that there's no refreshing of the page
or telling the user to check their email
or something, or to re-login
because, if they have this token, there's no reason why
you couldn't just immediately log them in.
And that's exactly what we're doing here.
So, that whole reset flow seems to be working,
the missing piece that we have now
is that I have to go into the database
and copy this token right here.
What we're gonna do in the next video is actually email
this token to the user to that we can confirm
that if they are resetting their password
then they must have access to that email address
otherwise they shouldn't be allowed to do so.